docs: File Pickers (#5546)
unoplatform/uno: doc/articles/features/windows-storage-pickers.md

if (saveFile != null)
{
    // Save file was picked, you can now write in it
    await FileIO.WriteTextAsync(saveFile, "Hello, world!");
}
else
{
    // No file was picked or the dialog was cancelled.
}
```

**Notes**: While the `SuggestedStartLocation` has no effect, it must be set for UWP. You must declare at least one item for `FileTypeChoices`. Each has a description and one or more extensions.

## Picker configuration

File pickers have various configuration options that customize the experience (see the <a href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.storage.pickers.fileopenpicker" target="_blank">UWP documentation</a> for full list of properties). Not all options are supported on all target platforms, in which case these are ignored.

To set which file type extensions you want to allow, use the `FileTypeFilter` property on `FileOpenPicker` and `FolderPicker`, and the `FileTypeChoices` property on `FileSavePicker`. Extensions must be in the format ".xyz" (starting with a dot). For `FileOpenPicker` and `FolderPicker` you can also include "*" (star) entry, which represents the fact that any file extension is allowed.

> Some systems use `MIME` types to specify the file type. Uno includes a list of common predefined mappings (see list in <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Basics_of_HTTP/MIME_types/Common_types" target="_blank">MDN Docs</a>). If a MIME type you require is missing, you can provide by adding it in the `Uno.WinRTFeatureConfiguration.FileTypes.FileTypeToMimeMapping` dictionary:

Reviewer: Question more about implementation than doc.
Why not use Android mapping?
mimeType = MimeTypeMap.Singleton.GetMimeTypeFromExtension(fileType.Substring(1));

Author: The main reason I went with our own mapper is that we already use it in some other API (I think drag and drop) and it allows consistent map across platforms - when an extension is on the list, you know it will be resolved the same way everywhere, and on the other hand if it not on the list, you know you need to provide the override. I realize it the Android implementation could provide more maps out of the box, but could also differ across versions, so that would make things less consistent.

Reviewer: But when Android changes mapping, it would use these changed mapping in picker. 
E.g. I want jpg files. Your mapping is "image/jpeg" (same as JPEG). But if Android changes mapping to "image/jpg", than Uno would not show JPG files, only JPEG files.
When I use Android MIME mapping, I'm sure that files I want appears in list.
But when I use Uno mapping, I don't know what result will be. So, in short, I should make "*" as file filter in Picker, and check file extension it in app code.

```c#
#if __WASM__
Uno.WinRTFeatureConfiguration.Storage.Pickers.WasmConfiguration = 
    WasmPickerConfiguration.FileSystemAccessApiWithFallback;
#endif
```

The allowed values for the configuration are:

- `FileSystemAccessApiWithFallback` - defaults to File System Access API, but falls back to download/upload pickers if not available
- `FileSystemAccessApi` - uses File System Access API only. If not avaialable, pickers will throw `NotSupportedException`
- `DownloadUpload` - uses download/upload pickers only.

## Android

Files picked from file pickers on Android are provided by the *Storage Access Framework API*. Due to its limitations, it is not possible to write to existing file in-place. Instead, Uno Platform creates a copy of the file in temporary storage and your changes are applied to this temporary file instead. When your file stream is then flushed, closed, or disposed of, the changes are written to the source file and the temporary file is discarded.

## iOS

iOS does not offer a built-in `FileSavePicker` alternative. Luckily it is possible to implement this functionality for example using a combination of a `FolderPicker` and `ContentDialog`.

> To provide your own custom implementation, create a class that implements the `IFileSavePickerExtension` which is only available on iOS. This class must have a `public` constructor with a `object` parameter. This will actually be an instance of `FileSavePicker` when invoked later. Then implement the `PickSaveFileAsync` method:

Reviewer 2: You should also mention this .ctor constraint as xml documentation on the interface too for ease of access. Although it is more likely that they will discover it in this doc.

Reviewer 3: - [ ] @MartinZikmund

```c#
#if __IOS__
namespace Custom.Pickers
{
    public class CustomFileSavePickerExtension : IFileSavePickerExtension
    {
        private readonly FileSavePicker _fileSavePicker;
    
        public CustomFileSavePickerExtension(object owner)
        {
            _fileSavePicker = (FileSavePicker)picker;
        }
        
        public async Task<StorageFile> PickSaveFileAsync(CancellationToken token)
        {
            // ... your own implementation
        }
    }
}
#endif
```

When done, register this extension in `App.xaml.cs`:

```c#
public App()
{
#if __IOS__
    ApiExtensibility.Register(
        typeof(Uno.Extensions.Storage.Pickers.IFileSavePickerExtension), 
        (picker) => new CustomFileSavePickerExtension(picker));
#endif
}
```

> As this is quite complex, you can check a full sample implementation of a folder-based save file picker <a href="https://github.com/unoplatform/Uno.Samples/pull/48" target="_blank">here in the Uno.Samples repository</a>. You can modify and adjust this implementation as you see fit for your specific use case.

Reviewer 2: Maybe reference the sample directory directly, so it remains up-to-date.
```suggestion
As this is quite complex, you can check a full sample implementation of a folder-based save file picker: [Uno.Samples - FileSavePickeriOS](https://github.com/unoplatform/Uno.Samples/tree/master/UI/FileSavePickeriOS). You can modify and adjust this implementation as you see fit for your specific use case.
```
note: _of course the above wont work until merged, so here is [the same link from your repo](https://github.com/MartinZikmund/Uno.Samples/tree/dev/mazi/file-save-picker/UI/FileSavePickeriOS)_

  - 🚫 Not supported
  
| Picker         | UWP | WebAssembly | Android | iOS | macOS | WPF | GTK |
|----------------|-----|-------------|---------|-----|-------|-----|-----|
| FileOpenPicker | ✅   | ✅      (1)     | ✅       | ✅   | ✅     | ✅   | 🚫  |
| FileSavePicker | ✅   | ✅  (1)         | ✅       | ✅   | ✅     | ✅   | 🚫  |
| FolderPicker   | ✅   | ✅           | ✅       | ⏸️ (2)|✅     | 🚫  | 🚫  |

(1) - Multiple implementations supported - see WebAssembly section below
(2) - See iOS section below

## Examples

### FolderPicker

``` c#
var folderPicker = new FolderPicker();
folderPicker.SuggestedStartLocation = PickerLocationId.ComputerFolder;
folderPicker.FileTypeFilter.Add("*");
StorageFolder pickedFolder = await folderPicker.PickSingleFolderAsync();
if (pickedFolder != null)
{
    // Folder was picked you can now use it
    var files = await pickedFolder.GetFilesAsync();
}
else
{
    // No folder was picked or the dialog was cancelled.
}
```

**Notes**: While the `SuggestedStartLocation` has currently no effect in Uno Platform targets, and `FileTypeFilter` has no effect for `FolderPicker`, they both must be set, otherwise the dialog crashes on UWP.

> ### FileOpenPicker - picking a single file

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### FileOpenPicker 

#### picking a single file
```

``` c#
var fileOpenPicker = new FileOpenPicker();
fileOpenPicker.SuggestedStartLocation = PickerLocationId.ComputerFolder;
fileOpenPicker.FileTypeFilter.Add(".txt");
fileOpenPicker.FileTypeFilter.Add(".csv");
StorageFile pickedFile = await fileOpenPicker.PickSingleFileAsync();
if (pickedFile != null)
{
    // File was picked, you can now use it
    var text = await FileIO.ReadTextAsync(pickedFile);
}
else
{
    // No file was picked or the dialog was cancelled.
}
```

**Notes**: While the `SuggestedStartLocation` has currently no effect in Uno Platform targets, it must be set, otherwise the dialog crashes on UWP. `FileTypes` must include at least one item. You can add extensions in the format `.extension`, with the exception of `*` (asterisk) which allows picking any type of file.

> ### FileOpenPicker - picking multiple files

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Picking multiple files
```

- <a href="https://caniuse.com/?search=showDirectoryPicker" target="_blank">`FolderPicker`</a>
- <a href="https://caniuse.com/?search=showOpenFilePicker" target="_blank">`FileOpenPicker`</a>
- <a href="https://caniuse.com/?search=showSaveFilePicker" target="_blank">`FileSavePicker`</a>

`FolderPicker` is only supported for this type of pickers.

File System Access API pickers allow direct access to the picked files and folders. This means that any modifications the user does to the files are persisted on the target file system. 

However, writing to the target file system is limited, so when a write-stream is opened for a file, Uno Platform creates a copy of the file in temporary storage and your changes are applied to this temporary file instead. When your file stream is then flushed, closed, or disposed of, the changes are written to the source file and the temporary file is discarded.

### Download/upload pickers

In case the **File System Access API** is not available in the browser, Uno Platform also offers a fallback to "download" and "upload" experiences.

> For the upload picker, the browser triggers a file picker dialog and Uno Platform then copies the selected files into temporary storage of the app. The `StorageFile` instance you receieve is private for your application and the changes are then not reflected in the original file. To save the changes, you need to trigger the "download picker".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For the upload picker, the browser triggers a file picker dialog and Uno Platform then copies the selected files into temporary storage of the app. The `StorageFile` instance you receive is private for your application and the changes are not reflected in the original file. To save the changes, you need to trigger the "download picker".
```

By default, Uno Platform attempts to use File System Access API and falls back to download/upload pickers if not available. To control this behavior, you can use `WinRTFeatureConfiguration`:

```c#
#if __WASM__
Uno.WinRTFeatureConfiguration.Storage.Pickers.WasmConfiguration = 
    WasmPickerConfiguration.FileSystemAccessApiWithFallback;
#endif
```

The allowed values for the configuration are:

- `FileSystemAccessApiWithFallback` - defaults to File System Access API, but falls back to download/upload pickers if not available
- `FileSystemAccessApi` - uses File System Access API only. If not avaialable, pickers will throw `NotSupportedException`
- `DownloadUpload` - uses download/upload pickers only.

## Android

Files picked from file pickers on Android are provided by the *Storage Access Framework API*. Due to its limitations, it is not possible to write to existing file in-place. Instead, Uno Platform creates a copy of the file in temporary storage and your changes are applied to this temporary file instead. When your file stream is then flushed, closed, or disposed of, the changes are written to the source file and the temporary file is discarded.

## iOS

> iOS does not offer a built-in `FileSavePicker` alternative. Luckily it is possible to implement this functionality for example using a combination of a `FolderPicker` and `ContentDialog`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
iOS does not offer a built-in `FileSavePicker` experience. Luckily it is possible to implement this functionality for example using a combination of a `FolderPicker` and `ContentDialog`.
```

To provide your own custom implementation, create a class that implements the `IFileSavePickerExtension` which is only available on iOS. This class must have a `public` constructor with a `object` parameter. This will actually be an instance of `FileSavePicker` when invoked later. Then implement the `PickSaveFileAsync` method:

```c#
#if __IOS__
namespace Custom.Pickers
{
    public class CustomFileSavePickerExtension : IFileSavePickerExtension
    {
        private readonly FileSavePicker _fileSavePicker;
    
        public CustomFileSavePickerExtension(object owner)
        {
            _fileSavePicker = (FileSavePicker)picker;
        }
        
        public async Task<StorageFile> PickSaveFileAsync(CancellationToken token)
        {
            // ... your own implementation
        }
    }
}
#endif
```

When done, register this extension in `App.xaml.cs`:

```c#
public App()
{
#if __IOS__
    ApiExtensibility.Register(
        typeof(Uno.Extensions.Storage.Pickers.IFileSavePickerExtension), 
        picker => new CustomFileSavePickerExtension(picker));
#endif
}
```

> As this is quite complex, you can check a full sample implementation of a folder-based save file picker in [Uno.Samples repository](https://github.com/unoplatform/Uno.Samples/tree/master/UI/FileSavePickeriOS). You can modify and adjust this implementation as you see fit for your specific use case.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As this is quite complex, you can find a working implementation of a folder-based save file picker in the [Uno.Samples repository](https://github.com/unoplatform/Uno.Samples/tree/master/UI/FileSavePickeriOS). You can modify and adjust this implementation as you see fit for your specific use case.
```
